Date: 2021-08-17, 1300 CEST
Meet: membarrier.verkligendata.se/sigsum
Chair: rgdd

Agenda
	* Hello
	* Status round
	* Discuss
	* Next steps

Hello
	* rgdd
	* ln5

Status round
	* [rgdd] merged minimal landing page after feedback from ln5
		* https://github.com/sigsum/sigsum/blob/1300d3cdd953d61e01f2476bbdbffb4ae6012f14/README.md
	* [rgdd] continued refactor of design document in design-framing branch (ongoing)
		* https://github.com/sigsum/sigsum/blob/35f066b9e23c2638cc66e67e4528d45f71267d64/doc/design.md
	* [rgdd] continued discussions about checkpoint format with trustfabric (ongoing)

Discuss
	* Cancel extra meet on Friday 10 am, meet as usual next week instead
		* (Context: want to discuss checkpoint format and need to keep it short today)
			* Timestamp, why is freshness important
			* [otherdata]
	* Anything project related?

Next steps
	* [rgdd] continue with TODOs identified last week + checkpoint format
	* [ln5] continue with project related sysadmin TODOs

Other useful links
	* [rgdd] new conference with topic package management
		* https://packaging-con.org/
