Date: 2021-10-12, 1300 CEST
Meet: https://meet.sigsum.org/sigsum
Chair: rgdd

Agenda
	* Hello
	* Status round
	* Discuss
	* Next steps

Hello
	* rgdd
	* ln5
	* rohonk

Status round
	* [rgdd et al.] itterated on documentation (design.md, website, etc.)
	* [ln5] running tag v0.3.1, sharded from 24th September - 7th November
		* The coming poc shards are named after transparent fishes
		* https://pulptastic.com/transparent-fish/
	* [rohonk] continued discussions about security proof and a paper with rgdd

Discuss
	* Landing page on a log's base-URL in sigsum-log-go?
		* "This is the log foobar, we are doing this and that..."
		* If an instance does not have a custom page, usage a general one
		* Decision: good idea, defer until after announcement
	* Add doc/history.md?
		* Motivation: document origin and journey, living document
		* Inspiration: curl, see docs repo
		* Decision: yes
	* What blocks us from announcing the project
		* Merge design.md, again
		* doc/history.md

Next steps
	* Announce project after fixing the final blockers
	* Defer other next step discussions until next week

Other useful links
	* [rohonk] interesting mis-usage of CT logs from a while back
		* https://defcon.org/html/defcon-25/dc-25-speakers.html#B%C3%B6ck
