Date: 2021-09-21, 1300 CEST
Meet: membarrier.verkligendata.se/sigsum
Chair: rgdd

Agenda
	* Hello
	* Status round
	* Discuss
	* Next steps

Hello
	* rgdd
	* rohonk
	* ln5

Status round
	* [rgdd] started to think about project announcement
	* [ln5] www.sigsum.org serves our hugo website
	* [rohonk] reading up on CM, can it be used to paramerize a security proof?

Discuss
	* Project announcement ideas
		* How do other projects announce themselves?
		* WireGuard announcement was good
			* Done on the mailing list
			* Short and down to the point
		* Max 500 words looks like a good goal.
		* Decision: rgdd is drafting an email, to go on the mailiing list.
	* Merits of using GET, as oposed to POST, for the three get-* endpoints
		* Initial thought was to not have, e.g., a percent-encoding parser too
		* Only having GET endpoints would make URLs self-describing
		* Useful if you are storing and/or sharing URLs to refer to data while debugging
		* Decision: think about this until next week
	* How about requiring gpg signing of git commits?
		* How about requring *some* signing of git commits
		* And of course released tar balls and such?
		* Because maybe not gpg?
		* Decision: defer for now, also think about alternatives to gpg
		* (rgdd mentions that mabye we need to fix contribution guidelines)
	* Picking a descriptive URL for meeting minutes pads
		* Decision: <pad-link>/sigsum-YYYYMMDD
	* RPKI transparency? RIPE discussion, but isn't CF already doing this?
		* Decision: reach out after project announcement

Next steps
	* [rgdd] document thoughts that go into project anouncement, propose drafty mail
	* [ln5] Get mailing list archive up and running, along with jitsi and pads services
	* [rohonk] review design.md in design-framing branch, continued work on sec proof.

Other useful links
	* [ln5, rgdd] An RPKI transparency log project?
		* https://www.ripe.net/ripe/mail/archives/routing-wg/2021-September/004397.html
		* https://blog.cloudflare.com/rpki-details/
		* https://ct.cloudflare.com/logs/cirrus
