Date: 2021-08-31, 1300 CEST
Meet: membarrier.verkligendata.se/sigsum
Chair: rgdd

Agenda
	* Hello
	* Status round
	* Discuss
	* Next steps

Hello
	* rgdd
	* ln5

Status round
	* [rgdd] updated discuss pads with TrustFabric (ongoing)
		* Checkpoint timestamp: https://git.sigsum.org/sigsum/tree/archive/2021-08-31-checkpoint-timestamp-continued?id=1299f6118dfb87dc9793aff927cc9bb5ff2aadb1
	* [rgdd] updated GitHub organization as a read-only mirror
		* "Mirror of git.sigsum.org - report issues via mailing list or irc/matrix"
		* sigsum-bot is the only allowed writer & organization owner
		* sigsum-bot account is controlled by rgdd
	* [rgdd] updated design.md to include more context and be more current
		* https://git.sigsum.org/sigsum/tree/doc/design.md?h=design-framing&id=1d912fee51de4367817f1cef93fe97bc828efbfb
	* [rgdd] started sketching on possible api.md changes
		* https://git.sigsum.org/sigsum/tree/doc/api.md?h=api-refactor&id=d8e0354941a23e2fafa4ac4257904431eb656554

Discuss
	* api.md
		* Still just a single document
			* It did not feel natural to break out witnessing as discussed before
			* Too much of the log's APIs are relevant for witnessing, and all APIs expect add-leaf and get-leaves could be reused by someone that wants a different log
			* Should probably spell this out in the document as 2-3 sentences instead
		* Removed redundant output as identified a while back
		* Incorporated checkpoint, details left as TODOs until that is settled
		* s/hex/base64 to be consistent with checkpoint
		* only line-terminated ASCII format to be consistent with checkpoint?
		* To think about (i.e., not a decision)
			* Just add a checkpoint endpoint (whatever Go is using)? If someone announces a witness we can then say 'great here is our endpoint - it is already there'.
			* Continue with our current formats for v0 / remainder of the year.   See how things develop in the witnessing ecosystem.  Gives us more flexibility to run with our ideas?
	* reach out to Andrew Ayer on the topic of monitor/witness ecosystem future?
		* Decision: Defer until design.md is merged, then rgdd reaches out for feedback
	* reach out to kpcyrd?
		* Maybe, let's see if our paths cross in some shared channel
	* Future PoCs?
		* WebExt - verify tlog proofs, e.g., you pressed the download button for 'tlog proof' and extension verifies.  Similar to terminal tooling but in a browser.
		* WebExt - SRI transparency
		* Similar poc as kpcyrd but for a different ecosystem? Tails? Gentoo?
		* Sigsum support in ST
		* WitnessDistro?
			* Who should witness?
			* Diversity
			* Know what they are doing, technical knowledge / competence / high integrity
			* Incentive to be a witness - value of being a witness when you use the log?
			* Describe how you could be a witness without actually being part of the big witness ecosystem that 'everyone' uses
	* A look into the future
		* Other tlogs will pick up some of the sigsum features
			* Sharding to keep the log ecosystem healthy
			* Spam and posining will become a concern
			* Witness cosigning to fix concerns about centralized trust
			* Emphasis on 'you don't need to talk to the log' as a good feature to have
	* Milestones to communicate project
		* 1. Project (Prelim: September)
		* 2. Feature-complete log (Prelim: October)
		* 3. PoC that runs against feature-complete log (Prelim: November)

Next steps
	* [ln5] paper and pen sale's pitch
	* [ln5] more sigsum services
	* [rgdd] reflect over the future of checkpoint

Other useful links
	* [ln5] Binary transparency poc for the pacman package manager
		* https://github.com/kpcyrd/pacman-bintrans
