Date: 2021-09-28, 1300 CEST
Meet: https://meet.sigsum.org/sigsum
Chair: rgdd

Agenda
	* Hello
	* Status round
	* Discuss
	* Next steps

Hello
	* rgdd
	* ln5
	* rohonk

Status round
	* [rgdd] drafted an announcement post, still work in progress
		* Inspiration: https://git.sigsum.org/sigsum/tree/archive/2021-09-28-announcement-inspiration?id=ff38f693454c9fe67c0cd5a6196f7ec62a3dd52b
		* Plan is that rgdd, ln5, and kfreds sign-off the final text
	* [rgdd] added shard_hint enforcement in sigsum-log-go
	* [ln5] added and improved sigsum services: pad, meet, lists
	* [rohonk] reviewed design.md document, continued security proof planning
		* https://git.sigsum.org/sigsum/tree/archive/2021-09-28-design-comments?id=ff38f693454c9fe67c0cd5a6196f7ec62a3dd52b

Discuss
	* Revisit 'what needs to be done' before project announcement
		* Services: done, but could be good:
			* figure out pad errors (Decision: fix continuously, refresh if error)
			* fix golang for cgit (Decision: fix now)
		* Announce mail: mostly done, needs additional review
		* Code: good to have
			* enforce domain_hint (Decision: fix now)
		* Take a pass over design.md, api.md, and README in sigsum-log-go (Decision: yes)
		* Should we dog-food announcement with someone?
			* GeKo?
			* Tobias?
			* Decision: yes, ask for feedback until the earlier parts of next week
	* Update practise for when a pad is persisted in our archive?
		* Background: sometimes pads are active and rgdd persits them several times
		* Proposal:
			* if pad is considered active: leave actual pad link in persisted minutes
			* else: consider persisting pad next week instead
			* (Motivation: less work.)
			* (Motivation: easier for someone that snoops in minutes to join discussion.)
			* (Remark: if it makes sense to snapshot active pad -> say so explicitly.)
		* Decision: yes
	* Would it be a good idea to add some kind of 'services' part on www.sigsum.org?
		* Decision: yes
	* Discuss if there are any API considerations that we are still thinking of
		* Background: we discussed GET vs POST last week, home work until today
		* Background: we probably have other discuss items that are not archived
		* Goal: it would be good to summarize what those discuss items are
			* Start: https://pad.sigsum.org/p/cb19-fa17-ac51-ce72
			* Decisions:
				* No changes before project announcement
				* Add FAQ in design.md about this, let's see what others think

Next steps
	* [rgdd]
		* setup research git repo for rohonk
		* add code for testing cgit golang setup for ln5
		* give ln5 a text for fresh pads
		* take pass over documentation
			* design.md w/ rohonk feedback, then merge
			* api.md
			* sigsum-log-go README.md
			* website
		* poke Geko and Tobias for holistic feedback
		* add domain_hint support in sigsum-log-go
	* [ln5]
		* feedback on announcement text
		* golang.sigsum.org set-up
	* [rohonk]
		* get started with separate git repo for security proof
		* discuss security proof requirements with rgdd
