Date: 2021-08-10, 1300 CEST
Meet: https://membarrier.verkligendata.se/sigsum
Chair: rgdd

Agenda
	* Hello
	* Status round
	* Discuss
	* Next steps

Hello
	* rgdd
	* ln5
	* kfreds

Status round
	* [rgdd] witness cosigning (ongoing discussions with trustfabric)
		* broader thoughts: https://github.com/sigsum/sigsum/blob/bbe8545b4b8f60676f019927616d2647dab58575/archive/2021-08-10--witnessing-broader-discuss
		* api and format: https://github.com/sigsum/sigsum/blob/bbe8545b4b8f60676f019927616d2647dab58575/archive/2021-08-10--witnessing-api-updates
		* current status
			* investigating changes that would fix the attack we outlined
			* after that we should start using the same format (Decision)
	* [rgdd] 3m rump session talk at PETS on sigsum logging
		* https://github.com/sigsum/sigsum/blob/bbe8545b4b8f60676f019927616d2647dab58575/archive/2021-08-10--rump-session-at-pets
	* [rgdd] started looking into Ed25519ph with yubikey

Discuss
	* Milestone: test run of feature-complete sigsum v0 log Oct-Dec
	* Milestone: not sure how to formulate yet, but "mature witnessing"
	* Milestone: project part, see decisions below
	* Open TODOs
		* sigsum (documentation, design)
			* (Co)signed tree head format (doc + implement)
			* Ed25519ph, SHA512/256?
			* Decision: Landing page in doc repo & website (rgdd)
			* Decision: Complete and merge design-framing doc branch (rgdd)
			* Update API spec
				* Decision: witness spec should be separate (rgdd)
		* sigsum-log-go
			* shard_hint (not enforced)
			* domain_hint (not enforced)
			* rate limits (not implemented)
			* enhancement: server config
			* enhancement: read-only mode
			* enhancement: run with hsm
			* refactor: move relevant parts into sigsum-lib-go
			* refactor: get rid of old references of "stfe"
		* sigsum-witness-py
			* refactor: use new witnessing APIs when done
			* refactor: get rid of old references of "stfe"
			* enhancement: run with hsm
		* tooling
			* currently non-existing
			* good exercise: add sigsum support in ST
		* operations
			* database
			* alerts
		* project
			* recall notes from ln5: https://github.com/sigsum/sigsum/blob/bbe8545b4b8f60676f019927616d2647dab58575/archive/2021-06-21-self-hosted-services
			* Decision: move to cgit (ln5)
			* Decision: defer mailing list
			* Decision: setup pastebin and pads (ln5)
			* Decision: setup meet.sigsum.org (ln5)
			* Decision: fix minimal landing page (rgdd)

Next steps
	* Work towards the above milestones
	* Near-term: fix the TODOs that were marked as decided

Other useful links
	* [z4lem] academic papers that relate to sigsum threat model
		* https://eprint.iacr.org/2007/060.pdf
		* https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/S0161893807000592
