Date: 2022-04-19 1100 UTC
Meet: https://meet.sigsum.org/sigsum
Chair: rgdd

Agenda
	* Hello
	* Status round
	* Decisions
	* Next steps

Hello
	* rgdd
	* ln5
	* anwesha

Status round
	* [rgdd] appoligies that the meet last week had to be cancelled
	* [rgdd] renamed repositories according to decided proposal
		* https://git.sigsum.org/sigsum/tree/doc/proposals/2022-04-restructure-repositories.md
		* have yet to port sigsum-tools-go into sigsum-go
	* [rgdd] proposal simplify ascii names
		* https://git.sigsum.org/sigsum/tree/doc/proposals/2022-04-simplify-ascii-names.md
	* [rgdd] added proof verification algorithms from RFC 9162
		* rgdd/merkle, have yet to be picked-up before being an MR
	* [anwesha] reading on tcp/ip
	* [anwesha] building basic ideas on monitoring, mapping the space
	* [ln5] vacation

Decisions
	* Decision: adopt simplify ascii names proposal

Next steps
	* [rgdd] wrap up integration test
	* [rgdd] ask for sigsum logo to be replaced on binary.transparency.dev
	* [ln5] log v0 work
	* [anwesha] continue with monitoring work
	* [anwesha] come up with an option for our monitoring tool
	* [anwesha] read sigsum docs and discuss with rgdd
	* [anwesha] go through the admin task list, clean up what is done
