Date: 2022-06-21 1100 UTC
Meet: https://meet.sigsum.org/sigsum
Chair: rgdd

Agenda
	* Hello
	* Status round
	* Decisions
	* Next steps

Hello
	* rgdd
	* gregoire
	* ln5

Status round
	* [rgdd et al.] drafty trademark registration for Sigsum
		* https://git.sigsum.org/sigsum/tree/archive/2022-06-21-trademark-registration-notes
	* [rgdd] bunch of misc stuff (assist ln5, osfc proposal, etc.)
	* [ln5] primary/secondary roles, finishing up
	* [ln5] fighting the Debian installer, again
	* [gregoire] changing private key format

Decisions
	* Decision: submit trademark registration for Sigsum

Next steps
	* [rgdd] assist ln5 with reivewing and merging of primary-secondary stuff
	* [ln5] getting logsrv-01 up and running with new code, acting as secondary node with logsrv-02 as primary
	* [ln5] vacation, back on july 11
	* [ln5] making sure that rgdd is able to restart and deploy new versions of the log, on all three systems (the poc and logsrv-{01,02})
	* [gregoire] long-lived witness
