Date: 2022-10-04 1100 UTC
Meet: https://meet.sigsum.org/sigsum
Chair: rgdd

Agenda
	* Hello
	* Status round
	* Decisions
	* Next steps

Hello
	* rgdd
	* nisse
	* gregoire
	* ln5

Status round
	* [nisse] merge change to api docs that moves tree hash
	* [nisse] start refactoring types/, MR to break out ssh formating into a package
	* [nisse] making progress on sigsum tool (keygen + sign with ssh-agent works)
		* https://git.glasklar.is/nisse/sigsum-tools
	* [nisse] making progress on proposal to remove shard hint w/ feedback from others
	* [nisse] making progress on copyright documentation w/ feedback from others
	* [ln5] a (poor) attempt at fixing the runners, still not properly set up
	* [ln5] some review
	* [gregoire] add sigsum-py issues
	* [gregoire] MR to make integration test run without explicit key generation

Decisions
	* None

Next steps
	* [ln5] ci runners
	* [gregoire] ssh agent issue in sigsum-py
	* [nisse] continue the 'making progress' items
	* [nisse] implement tree head change
	* [nisse] merge stuff from gregoire, and provide ssh-agent pointers
	* [rgdd] feedback to nisse on sigsum tool, rubberduck
