Date: 2022-12-06 1215 UTC
Meet: https://meet.sigsum.org/sigsum
Chair: rgdd

Agenda
	* Hello
	* Status round
	* Decisions
	* Next steps

Hello
	* rgdd
	* filippo
	* gregoire
	* ln5
	* nisse

Status round
	* [nisse] implemented half-open convention. Added witness integration
	  test (sigsum-py), but not yet enabled in ci.
	* [nisse] looking into command line tools, have log submit and verify in
	  exp. repo.
	* [filippo] mailed witness MR
		* https://git.glasklar.is/sigsum/project/documentation/-/merge_requests/21/
	* [rgdd] issue and milestone clean-up
		* https://git.glasklar.is/groups/sigsum/-/milestones
	* [rgdd] review/discuss with nisse + read filippo's witnessing proposal
	* [ln5] setup poc.sigsum.org using ansible stuff from foxboron,
	  automatically deployed hourly (tracking main).  If anyone wants it to
	  track a different branch, let linus know.

Decisions
	* Decision: Rename a few endpoints and ascii keys (recently updated)
		* https://git.glasklar.is/sigsum/project/documentation/-/blob/main/proposals/2022-07-api-renaming.md
	* Are we ready to adopt the witness design or is it too early?
		* Ready to discuss it with Google?  Defer until next week

Next steps
	* [filippo] flesh out bastion reverse connection for witnessing
	* [nisse] implement renaming, commandline tool and proof format, state
	  management logic
	* [gregoire] check MR from nisse in sigsum-py, will do renaming too
	* [rgdd, ln5] read/think more about witnessing proposal and additional
	  text from filippo, follow-up with feedback async

Other useful links
	* [nisse] Too early for decision, but I'd like to discuss "sigsum proof" spec
		* https://git.glasklar.is/sigsum/project/documentation/-/merge_requests/18
