Date: 2022-11-22 1215 UTC
Meet: https://meet.sigsum.org/sigsum
Chair: rgdd

Agenda
	* Hello
	* Status round
	* Decisions
	* Next steps

Hello
	* rgdd
	* nisse
	* ln5
	* gregoire

Status round
	* [nisse] Merged rate limit implemention
		* (And filed issues for desired extensions and known problems)
	* [nisse] Merged the in-memory backend
		* Exercised by running integration tests with --ephemeral
		* Intend to use it for witness integration test as well, and tests for client command line tools
	* [nisse] Started looking into the state management code
		* Lacks tests and docs, and may need some refactoring into more easily testable pieces
	* [gregoire] poetry setup
	* [gregoire] Started refactoring HTTP client
	* [rgdd] review work

Decisions
	* None

Next steps
	* What's left when it comes to review of naming for 1.0 review of naming
	  done? Some parts (e.g., start_size/end_size for get-leaves) is not a
	  change of wireformat, it's docs + sigsum-go api change to rename
	  corresponding struct fields. Is there also some renaming on the wire
	  we want to do?
		* Check issues in project repo
		* Read through api doc from start to finnish, any other akward names?
	* [nisse] Would like to merge
	  https://git.glasklar.is/sigsum/core/sigsum-go/-/merge_requests/26 and
	  https://git.glasklar.is/sigsum/core/log-go/-/merge_requests/40
	  (smaller refactoring) first. Higher-level suggestinos on how to
	  restructure/refactor state management also welcome, wip MR:s
	  https://git.glasklar.is/sigsum/core/log-go/-/merge_requests/36,
	  https://git.glasklar.is/sigsum/core/log-go/-/merge_requests/35.
	* [nisse] Look into
	  https://git.glasklar.is/sigsum/core/sigsum-go/-/issues/2 (probably an
	  easy fix), document primary/secondary interaction.
	* [rgdd] review first two MRs (especially look at naming), and for the
	  other MRs high-level review.  And check ssh merge request, anything
	  more to do there or just merge?
	* [gregoire] continue http client things in python lib
	* [ln5] get poc log running again, and it should follow main (will sync
	  with morten about this too).  Will update name and key of
	  ghost-shrimp, and update that too.
