Date: 2022-03-08 1200 UTC
Meet: https://meet.sigsum.org/sigsum
Chair: rgdd

Agenda
	* Hello
	* Status round
	* Decisions
	* Next steps

Hello
	* rgdd
	* anwesha
	* ln5

Status round
	* [rgdd] delivered talk on CT days 2022
	* [rgdd, db, kfreds, ln5] draft on sigsum compared to sigstore/rekor
	* [anwesha] plan for implementing new apache role, started working on it
	* [anwesha] documented font licensing decision
		* https://git.sigsum.org/sigsum/tree/archive/2022-03-08-font-summary.md
	* [ln5] ordering hardware for the log hosts
	* [ln5] signing format changes to the log

Decisions
	* None

Next steps
	* [rgdd] merge font docs from anwesha
	* [rgdd] merge sigsum compared to sigstore/rekor text
	* [ln5] log v0 coding, including tooling (submit) and the python witness
	* [ln5] mariadb replication tried out in lab environment
	* [anwesha] Make tee.so a staging server, similar infra as pause.so
	* [anwesha] have the new role running in pause
	* [anwesha] plan other tasks with ln5

Other useful links
	* CT days 2022 agenda
		* https://docs.google.com/document/d/1t2A_gCllkovHHWVin_TExhbOkM5xwr1NIZKv5PUwt8E/edit
	* Upcoming PETS paper on SCT auditing in Certificate Transparency
		* https://arxiv.org/pdf/2203.01661.pdf
