Date: 2022-10-18 1100 UTC
Meet: https://meet.sigsum.org/sigsum
Chair: rgdd

Agenda
	* Hello
	* Status round
	* Decisions
	* Next steps

Hello
	* rgdd
	* ln5
	* gregoire
	* nisse
	* filippo

Status round
	* [nisse] proposal to remove shard hint and re-work dns-based rate-limits
		* https://git.glasklar.is/sigsum/project/documentation/-/blob/main/proposals/2022-09-rate-limit-separation.md
		* (The concrete proposal is the part before the Appendix.)
	* [nisse] proposal on restructuring ascii key-value format 
		* https://git.glasklar.is/sigsum/project/documentation/-/blob/main/proposals/2022-10-restructure-ascii-format.md
	* [nisse] wip rate limit implementation 
		* https://git.glasklar.is/sigsum/core/log-go/-/merge_requests/17
		* what level of testing is needed?
		* what should be the default behavior? can we bundle a copy of the public suffix list?
	* [nisse] Reviewing state management (internal/state/single.go), in preparation for adding support for multiple secondaries
	* [ln5] gitlab runners set up
	* [ln5] rate limit proposal read -- good stuff
	* [gregoire] sigsum-py MRs with some lingering changes

Decisions
	* Decision: adopt proposal to remove shard hint and re-work dns-based rate-limits

Next steps
	* [nisse] implement the above decision in spec + code, continue with rate limit implementation and multiple secondaries if time permits
	* [gregoire] fix integration test branch for ci, if time permits continue with ssh agent client in sigsum-py
	* [everyone] look at ascii proposal
		* https://git.glasklar.is/sigsum/project/documentation/-/blob/main/proposals/2022-10-restructure-ascii-format.md
	* [rgdd] provide feedback on rate limit MR
