Date: 2022-08-15 1200 UTC
Meet: https://meet.sigsum.org/sigsum
Chair: rgdd

Agenda
	* Hello
	* Status round
	* Decisions
	* Next steps

Hello
	* rgdd
	* anweshax
	* ln5

Status round
	* [rgdd] brought log-url and end-user terminology proposals into main documentation
	* [rgdd] continued work on FAQ, some sketching on tooling
	* [anwesha] tl;dr font licence from letter's of sweden is not a good fit

Decisions
	* None

Next steps
	* [rgdd] continued FAQ stuff
	* [anweshax] look which font licences we would like to use, send team and lars
	* [ln5] migrating our mailing list to our own list manager
