Date: 2022-05-22 1100 UTC
Meet: https://meet.sigsum.org/sigsum
Chair: rgdd

Agenda
	* Hello
	* Status round
	* Decisions
	* Next steps

Hello
	* rgdd
	* ln5
	* anwesha

Status round
	* [rgdd] added merkle package, need proper test vectors later on
	* [rgdd] added branch rgdd/client-skeleton for ln5 to use as reference
	* [ln5] log primary/secondary role implementation (ongoing)
	* [anwesha] finshed coding and deployed the 2nd phase of monitoring tool
		* spec in active pad: https://pad.sigsum.org/p/ca08-da66-dd20-cd75
	* [anwesha] requested that Sigsum logo is replaced on binary.transparency.dev (#36)
		* https://github.com/transparency-dev/binary-transparency-website/pull/8

Decisions
	* None

Next steps
	* [rgdd] trademark registration email
	* [ln5] log primary/secondary role implementation
	* [anwesha] contributing text (not cla)
