Date: 2022-12-13 1215 UTC
Meet: https://meet.sigsum.org/sigsum
Chair: rgdd

Agenda
	* Hello
	* Status round
	* Decisions
	* Next steps

Hello
	* rgdd
	* filippo
	* nisse
	* ln5
	* Morten
	* gregoire

Status round
	* [rgdd, ln5, nisse, kfreds] discuss witnessing proposal
		* https://git.glasklar.is/sigsum/project/documentation/-/blob/main/archive/2022-12-13-witness-discuss-notes
		* split up into log.md and witness.md
		* move timestamp to cosignatures
		* replace current witness api with what's brewing in MR, and we
		  should run reverse proxies on our sigsum log machines as
		  separate components
		* let's continue hashing out details, broadly the direction is good
		* aim for some formal decisions to get things merged next week
		  and itterate further on that new steady state? (yes, sounds
		  good)
	* [rgdd] will try to only be around on tuesdays as an fyi, foxboron will
	  do review and rubberucking with nisse
	* nisse: Implemented api renaming discussed last week. Updated docs on
	  api status codes.
	* Morten: Review code changes, get into the code base and first draft for config file
	* gregoire: looked at nisse's MR, should be merged (will do this afternoon)

Decisions
	* Decision: Cancel weekly meet on December 27 due to holidays
	* Decision: Cancel weekly meet on January 3 due to holidays
	* Decision: move timestamp to cosignature
		* https://git.glasklar.is/sigsum/project/documentation/-/merge_requests/24

Next steps
	* [filippo] proposals until next week about witnessing to get a new
	  steady state, will reach out to al and ryan to let them know what
	  we're doing and thinking
	* [gregoire] merge stuff from nisse
	* [Morten] review/rubberduck with nisse, and prepping config MR
	* [nisse] working milestones, main prio log server
	* [rgdd] get notes archived
