Date: 2022-02-08 1200 UTC
Meet: https://meet.sigsum.org/sigsum
Chair: rgdd

Agenda
	* Hello
	* Status round
	* Decisions
	* Next steps

Hello
	* rgdd
	* ln5
	* Anwesha

Status round
	* [rgdd] giving some attention to improve our FAQ
	* [rgdd] documented timestamp reflections
		* https://git.sigsum.org/sigsum/tree/archive/2022-02-08-timestamp-reflections.md
	* [rgdd] end-user terminology proposal
		* https://git.sigsum.org/sigsum/tree/doc/proposals/2022-02-end-user-terminology.md
	* [ln5] read some sigsum-{lib,log}-go code
	* [ln5] moved the question about the choice of font forward a bit

Decisions
	* Decision: adopt end-user terminology proposal

Next steps
	* [rgdd] continued work on FAQ
	* [ln5] sigsum-{lib,log}-go and email stack, slow pace
	* [anwesha] Font licensing work: go through the different practical and legal options to make decision
	* [anwesha] Sys-admin: Finish tasks lying at the nextcloud task list
	* [anwesha] Documentation: come up with a topic for documentation

Other useful links
	* Call for presentations (SupplyChainSecurityCon)
		* https://www.linuxfoundation.org/press-release/the-linux-foundation-announces-supplychainsecuritycon-will-be-featured-under-the-open-source-summit-north-america-2022-conference-umbrella/
