Date: 2022-09-13 1100 UTC
Meet: https://meet.sigsum.org/sigsum
Chair: rgdd

Agenda
	* Hello
	* Status round
	* Decisions
	* Next steps

Hello
	* rgdd
	* ln5
	* nisse
	* gregoire

Status round
	* [rgdd] cancelling proposal to host services with name gtse
		* i.e., keep everything as is right now
	* [rgdd] migrated most repos, issues, and milestone stuff to gitlab.so
	* [rgdd] proposal to let gregoire take the lead on everything sigsum-py
		* Improve witness, refactor, add documentation that's missing, etc.
		* Main responsile for what does (not) get into sigsum-py
	* [rgdd] switch to operating the daemonized witness
	* [nisse] getting started with fixing sigsum issues
		* Replaced hex encoding (making it case insensitive)
		* Looking into thread safety issues in pkg/log
		* Some more docs on log-go integration tests
	* [ln5] prepared and presented at foss-sthlm
	* [ln5] smaller sysadmin things all over the place
	* [gregoire] deploy monitor, gitlab MRs

Decisions
	* Decision: let gregoire take the lead on everything sigsum-py
	* Decision: cancel next week's meet due to OSFC

Next steps
	* [rgdd] prepare OSFC presentation, be nisse's rubberduck / merge things
	* [ln5] look into some irregularities with logsrv-02 that we've been seeing warnings for
	* [ln5] hw requirement spec for richard
	* [ln5] checker
	* [gregoire] log verification in monitor
	* [gregoire] modularizing mod-py to use as "submitter"
	* [gregoire] if time, test gitlab ci (got machine from ln5 now)
	* [nisse] work through issue list

Other useful links and info
	* planned infrastructure maintencance tomorrow thursday 07:00-09:00
	* https://gitlab.sigsum.org/sigsum/project/documentation/-/blob/main/archive/2022-09-13-reading-list
	* https://gitlab.glasklarteknik.se/glasklar/services/gitlab/-/issues/27
	* https://pyrsia.io/
	* https://gitlab.sigsum.org/sigsum/core/log-go/-/issues/27
