Date: 2023-02-07 1215 UTC
Meet: https://meet.sigsum.org/sigsum
Chair: rgdd

Agenda
	* Hello
	* Status round
	* Decisions
	* Next steps

Hello
	* rgdd
	* filippo
	* ln5
	* nisse
	* Foxboron

Status round
	* [rgdd] more roadmap planning, syncing, and documenting it for a decision today
	* [rgdd] brief update from gr√©goire
	* [nisse] sigsum tooling, atm blocked on client refactoring
	  (https://git.glasklar.is/sigsum/core/sigsum-go/-/merge_requests/54,
	  https://git.glasklar.is/sigsum/core/sigsum-go/-/merge_requests/51).
	  Started looking at witnessing,
	  https://git.glasklar.is/sigsum/core/log-go/-/merge_requests/99.
	  Updated log-go/README.md.
		* "blocked" as in forgot to assign MR to morten, morten will check today
	* [ln5] rudimentary up-time monitoring running ("checker"), sign up to
	  our sigsum-log-monitor list at
	  https://lists.sigsum.org/mailman3/postorius/lists/sigsum-log-monitor.lists.sigsum.org/
	  if you like email
	* [filippo] discussed and reviewed roadmap
	* [Foxboron] working towards anonuncement stuff, in particular working
	  on how to document ansible; review of nisse's stuff.

Decisions
	* Decision: Cancel weekly on 2023-02-14
		* rgdd, nisse, ln5, Foxboron have a scheduling conflict
		* resume weekly's as usual on 2023-02-21 and forward
	* Decision: Update roadmap
		* https://git.glasklar.is/sigsum/project/documentation/-/blob/main/archive/2023-02-07-roadmap.md
		* 1: https://git.glasklar.is/groups/sigsum/-/milestones/1#tab-issues (cont.)
			* "Now, aim to be done before summer or as soon as possible"
		* 2: https://git.glasklar.is/groups/sigsum/-/milestones/5#tab-issues (start/cont.)
			* "Now, aim to be done until end of march"
			* (nisse: bulk of logic for witnessing: would prefer if it is in sigsum-go)
		* 3: https://git.glasklar.is/groups/sigsum/-/milestones/3#tab-issues (cont.)
			* rgdd would like to close this milestone and define a
			  new one with nisse after meeting in person next week
			  (i.e., after working and sketching a bit together).
		* *: https://git.glasklar.is/groups/sigsum/-/milestones/6#tab-issues (cont.)
		* *: ln5 is working on checker, rgdd will setup a runner after given instructions
		* The remaining 4 and 5 have yet to be planned in more detail
			* Not priority yet, any milestones related to this are in "DRAFT: " stage
			* 4(ii): https://git.glasklar.is/groups/system-transparency/core/-/milestones/11#tab-issues
		* Milestone overview: https://git.glasklar.is/groups/sigsum/-/milestones
		* Next update of roadmap: 2023-04-04

Next steps
	* [rgdd] add "Future" issues in documentation repo
		* Additional reference use-cases (we want a few)
		* Additional libraries for sigsum enforcement (python, rust, ...)
		* Tooling and/or data store service component
		* Formal verification of design + sigsum paper
		* Minimal database backend
		* SMT on-top of Sigsum ("verifiable log-backed map")
		* Framework (Filippo)
	* [rgdd] read and then discuss (pseudo)proposals with filippo
		* https://git.glasklar.is/sigsum/project/documentation/-/issues/26
		* https://git.glasklar.is/sigsum/project/documentation/-/merge_requests/30
	* [rgdd] read and discuss proposal with nisse
		* https://git.glasklar.is/sigsum/project/documentation/-/merge_requests/29
		* Defer decision until 21st
	* [ln5] get stable log (ghost-shrimp) up to a recent version
	* [ln5] produce instructions and/or code for setting up uptime monitoring using checker
	* [Filippo] chat proposals with rgdd
	* [Foxboron] ansible milestone + review nisse stuff
	* [nisse] witnessing milestone

Other
	* Brief team retrospective (rgdd will take local notes only)
		* Is it clear what you're working on until the next planning meet (every ~8 weeks)?
		* Is it clear what the project works towards the coming 6 months?
		* Is it somewhat clear what the project may be working towards after that?
		* Is someone available to provide input to your work in a timely manner, i.e., is the feedback cycle short enough?  E.g., wrt. code review, discussion of proposals, or anything else that you're doing in the project?
		* Is there anything that I could do to make your working situation better?
		* Anything else you would like to bring up?
		* Any other question you would like me to ask by default?
	* [ln5] Our stable log, ghost-shrimp, is currently at 0.5.1/0.0.9
	  (trillian 1.3.13) which is way behind. What's a reasonable process for
	  upgrading our stable log, you think?
		* [Moving forward, it would be good if ln5 dogfoods our
		  "releases", more work needed here and exactly what it means to
		  make a release.  Pick-up async.]
		* For now nisse will recommend a tag for ln5 to operate (latest)
