# Sigsum weekly

  - Date: 2023-06-20 1215 UTC
  - Meet: https://meet.sigsum.org/sigsum
  - Chair: rgdd

## Agenda

  - Hello
  - Status round
  - Decisions
  - Next steps
  - Other (after the meet if time permits)

## Hello

  - rgdd
  - Foxboron
  - filippo

## Status round

  - rgdd: some timestamp hints (notes) as requested last week
    - https://git.glasklar.is/sigsum/project/documentation/-/blob/main/archive/2023-06-20-timestamp-hints
  - filippo: prepping for a call with trillian folks on thursday
  - Foxboron: Followup on comments from Linus on witness confs
    - Has not been merged yet, but expecting that linus will take the MR

## Decisions

  - None

## Next steps

  - rgdd, filippo: polishing specs (log @rgdd, filippo @witness)
  - rgdd: shoot an email to matilde to virtual walk with filippo
  - filippo: synking with the trillian folks
  - Foxboron, ln5: what needs to be done to deploy witness config changes at
    poc.sigsum.org?

## Other

  - Enable 2FA @ gitlab if you havn't already
