# 2023-05-16

This document provides a sketch of the current roadmap and involved people.

## Summary of changes

The last roadmap was documented and decided here:

  - https://git.glasklar.is/sigsum/project/documentation/-/blob/main/archive/2023-04-04-roadmap.md
  - https://git.glasklar.is/sigsum/project/documentation/-/blob/main/archive/2023-04-04--meeting-minutes.md#decisions

We are not making any changes to the overall roadmap.  The milestones
relating to [tooling][], [monitoring][], and [witnessing][] are done.

[tooling]: https://git.glasklar.is/groups/sigsum/-/milestones/7#tab-issues
[monitoring]: https://git.glasklar.is/groups/sigsum/-/milestones/8#tab-issues
[witnessing]: https://git.glasklar.is/groups/sigsum/-/milestones/5#tab-issues

The overall progress can be summarized as follows:

  - No pending/planned proposals for log.md (just witness.md)
  - Cryptographic/semantic compatibility between sigsum and checkpoints
  - The updated witnessing protocol is supported by log-go
  - Witness and bastion host prototypes in Go are available for testing
  - Completed first iteration of Sigsum tooling, including a monitor

## Roadmap

In rough order of priority:

  1. Wrap-up and polish specifications.  The goal is to bump the version of the
     below documents from zero to one.
     1. log.md (separate specification)
     2. witness.md (separate specification)
     3. bastion.md (separate specification)
  2. Iterate on witnessing
     1. sigsum-py (minimal changes to be an http server, ambition "prototype")
     2. bastion-go (test deployment, address feedback)
     3. witness-go (test deployment, address feedback)
  3. Iterate on tooling and associated libraries
     1. Monitoring (more realistic callbacks as well as improving performance,
        alerts, and state management)
     2. Log submission (support of batch logging and improved performance)
     3. Policy file (figuring out and testing how to update it without breakage,
        and if/how the Sigsum project should provide a sample policy)
     4. Smaller improvements in the "misc" category (see separate issues)
  4. Demonstrate use-cases.  We will try some prototyping with Tillitis.
  5. Improve the "health" of log-go, e.g., including adding more metrics and
     fixing so that the operator can update some configurations dynamically.
  6. Improved integration/unit testing in log-go, also including support for
     multiple secondaries and better failover testing as well as documentation.
  7. Focus on website and documentation.  Needs to be planned before starting.

[ongoing milestone]: https://git.glasklar.is/groups/sigsum/-/milestones/7#tab-issues

Backlog tasks and clean-up is in-scope on a need-basis.  Log operator support
and bug fixing is also in scope and planned separately when needed.

We will not be working on (5) and forward before September.  Our estimate for
all of the above is "at least until October".  Once we're done, the plan is to
enter "maintenance" mode.  This includes debugging, bug fixing, support, patch
reviewing and merging, giving talks, growing the witnessing ecosystem, etc.

Parallel to "maintenance" mode we may also decide on further development topics
that relate to Sigsum.  These are (or will eventually be) documented separately
as GitLab issues, try filtering on the "Future" label for a partial overview.
You may also look for "DRAFT: " [milestones][] as yet another partial overview.

[milestones]: https://git.glasklar.is/groups/sigsum/-/milestones/

## People

  - filippo
    - is the main driver of 1(ii) and 1(iii), input from nisse/rgdd
    - is the main driver of 2(ii) and 2(iii), test deploy by ln5/rgdd
  - nisse
    - is the main driver of 1(i), input from rgdd/filippo
    - is the main driver of 2(i), review from Foxboron
    - is the main driver of 3, input from rgdd and review from Foxboron
    - will do 4 with rgdd and others during 22-24 May
  - ln5
    - is the main responsible for anything relating to ansible/ops stuff
    - is the main responsible for "customer relations"
  - Foxboron provides nisse with code-review and hacking discussions
  - Grégoire is busy with other things at the moment; responds to questions if
    poked, nisse has the go-ahead to hack in sigsum-py with review from Foxboron
  - rgdd plans, syncs, and provides input on a need-basis

(Note: Foxboron is no longer main responsible for sigsum's ansible collection.)

## Concrete milestones

  - Protocol milestone continues as planned
    - https://git.glasklar.is/groups/sigsum/-/milestones/1#tab-issues
    - Main difference: start preparing/polish a v1 log.md draft
  - Iterate on libraries and tooling (new)
    - https://git.glasklar.is/groups/sigsum/-/milestones/10#tab-issues
  - Health of log-go-{primary,secondary} (new)
    - https://git.glasklar.is/groups/sigsum/-/milestones/11#tab-issues
  - There's no milestone for tracking bastion-go and witness-go, but it's a
    priority to test and provide input to filippo who will then iterate.
