# 2023-04-04

This document provides a sketch of the current roadmap and involved people.

## Summary of changes

The last roadmap was documented and decided here:

  - https://git.glasklar.is/sigsum/project/documentation/-/blob/main/archive/2023-02-07-roadmap.md
  - https://git.glasklar.is/sigsum/project/documentation/-/blob/main/archive/2023-02-07--meeting-minutes#L40-57

The main differences are:

  - Release of log-go and ansible is done
    - https://lists.tillitis.se/mailman3/hyperkitty/list/sigsum-general@lists.sigsum.org/thread/3VBGVETN3Q44RFGVZJZDF4ZF4QLEMBC2/
  - First iteration of 3(i) - 3(iv) is almost done
  - There's a rough estimate for when (4) may be started
  - The focus of (4) is Tillitis to start with, not ST
  - Support for multiple secondaries and dynamic updating of log-go config is on 
    the roadmap, however not in the next iteration of our concrete milestones

## Roadmap

In rough order of priority:

  1. Wrap-up and polish specifications.  The goal is to bump the version of the
     below documents from zero to one.
     1. log.md (separate specification)
     2. witness.md (separate specification)
     3. bastion.md (separate specification)
  2. Update witnessing
     1. sigsum-py (minimal changes to be an http server, ambition "prototype")
     2. log-go (start polling witnesses in state manager, eventually with lower
        latency but it may be helpful to start with a high-latency MVP solution).
     3. bastion-go (prototype following our specs, then make it production ready)
     4. witness-go (prototype following our specs, then make it production ready)
  3. Iterate on tooling and associated libraries
     1. Monitoring, start by prototyping then iterate.  We will likely want to
        wrap this so that it is easy to add your own custom application logic.
     2. Next iteration of policy file, end-user libs, and command-line tools.
        The first iteration is almost completed, see [ongoing milestone][].
  4. Demonstrate use-cases.  The current plan is to prototype with Tillitis.
  5. Add support for multiple secondaries, including tests and documentation.
     Also add support for dynamic updating of the log-go config w/o restart.
  6. Focus on website and documentation.  Needs planning before starting.  It is
     likely wise to defer updates to design.md until this activity is closer.

[ongoing milestone]: https://git.glasklar.is/groups/sigsum/-/milestones/7#tab-issues

Backlog tasks and clean-up is in-scope on a need-basis.  Log operator support
and bug fixing is also in scope and planned separately when needed.

We will not be working on (4) and forward before mid-May.  Our estimate for all
of the above is "at least until September".  Once we're done, the plan is to
enter "maintenance" mode.  This includes debugging, bug fixing, support, patch
reviewing and merging, giving talks, growing the witnessing ecosystem, etc.

Parallel to "maintenance" mode we may also decide on further development topics
that relate to Sigsum.  These are (or will eventually be) documented separately
as GitLab issues, try filtering on the "Future" label for a partial overview.
You may also look for "DRAFT: " [milestones][] as yet another partial overview.

[milestones]: https://git.glasklar.is/groups/sigsum/-/milestones/

## People

  - Filippo is the main driver of 1, input/discussion/decisions with everyone;
    nisse will help out with splitting and polishing of decided specifications.
  - Filippo is the main driver of 2(iii) and 2(iv), review from nisse.
  - Foxboron is the main driver of anything relating to ansible
  - ln5 is the main driver of "customer relations", also involved in "ops" stuff
  - Grégoire is busy with other things at the moment; responds to questions if
    poked, nisse has the go-ahead to hack in sigsum-py with review from Foxboron
  - nisse hacks on everything else unless otherwise specified, Foxboron does
    review and is around to provide input and discuss a need-basis
  - rgdd plans, syncs, and provides input on a need-basis

## Concrete milestones

  - Protocol milestone continues as planned
    - https://git.glasklar.is/groups/sigsum/-/milestones/1#tab-issues
    - request from rgdd: filippo aims to propose finals changes this month
  - Tooling milestone is almost done, cut monitoring and bump expiration date
    - https://git.glasklar.is/groups/sigsum/-/milestones/7#tab-issues
    - request from rgdd: nisse wraps up the past tooling milestone this week
  - Witnessing milestone has so far been backlogged, only bump expiration date
    - https://git.glasklar.is/groups/sigsum/-/milestones/5#tab-issues
    - request from rgdd: nisse/filippo aims to prioritize this month
  - Monitoring milestone (new)
    - https://git.glasklar.is/groups/sigsum/-/milestones/8#tab-issues
    - request from rgdd: nisse pages this in after completing his witnessing
      TODOs
