# Sigsum weekly

- Date: 2023-10-17 1215 UTC
- Meet: https://meet.sigsum.org/sigsum
- Chair: rgdd

## Agenda

- Hello
- Status round
- Decisions
- Next steps
- Other (after the meet if time permits)

## Hello

- rgdd
- nisse
- gregoire
- filippo

## Status round

- nisse: poc witness up and running
- filippo: implemented new protocol in litewitness, pretty and has tests
- rgdd: collecting input on spec proposal
- rgdd: yubihsm, work in progress
- rgdd: would like to remind everyone about our ongoing milestones, expires in
  2w
  - (let's talk about this briefly in the other section)

## Decisions

- Decision: Adopt proposal for releasing specifications with version>0
  - https://git.glasklar.is/sigsum/project/documentation/-/merge_requests/51
- Decision: Cancel next week's weekly on 2023-10-24
  - (Context: most of the regulars will be away and thus not able to attend.)

## Next steps

- rgdd: more of the same (yubihsm)
- rgdd: push for log.md v1 decision in two weeks from now
- rgdd: start planning next roadmap update
- rgdd: provide feedback / unblock you, let me know what you need
- nisse: not sure, been thinking mostly about the log release. Would like to
  wrap that up, then start picking up monitoring or other things from milestones
- filippo: witness spec, witness docs
- gregoire: slow progress on rust library, started talking to infra

## Other

- Milestones
  - https://git.glasklar.is/groups/sigsum/-/milestones
  - (Probably: backlog non-assigned sigsum doc issues, separate milestone next?)
  - (Assigned/ongoing issues seems pretty reasonable to complete until then)
  - (rgdd would like input from nisse/filippo on what they **won't** be able
    complete until end of october, so he can start planning the next iteration
    sometime soon.)
  - nisse will pick up the monitoring, that's ~about it and maybe not 100% done.
  - multiple bastions -> adds lots of complexity. Filippo has a branch, would
    like input. Probably won't be "ready" in the next two weeks. Will send the
    wip branch. Filippo will take as action point to discuss simpler
    alternatives. Would be a nice feature, but exactly how to implement it makes
    it a "maybe" feature. To Be Discussed.
- Links from filippo
  - https://github.com/C2SP/C2SP
  - https://github.com/C2SP/CCTV
  - should we put specs on C2SP?
