Date: 2022-01-10 1215 UTC
Meet: https://meet.sigsum.org/sigsum
Chair: rgdd

Agenda
	* Hello
	* Status round
	* Decisions
	* Next steps

Hello
	* rgdd
	* nisse
	* filippo
	* Foxboron
	* Gr√©goire
	* ln5

Status round
	* [rgdd] wip planning and contrib guidelines + providing input where wanted
	* [filippo] discussed with Google folks
	* [filippo] bastion implementation at
	  https://github.com/FiloSottile/mostly-harmless/tree/main/bastion
	  (running at https://example-bastion.fly.dev/)
	* [filippo] witness PoC on top of Google's backend with checkpoint
	  format, see: https://github.com/google/trillian-examples/pull/712
		* Differences from witness.md to think about
			* Checkpoint format
			* Consistency proof hashes are base64-encoded
			* Update API takes JSON and returns a checkpoint
			* Get size API takes origin line (instead of public key hash)
				* This is probably a good idea beyond interop, as it allows key rotation
	* [nisse] ssh-agent support (also to work in integration tests) +
	  tooling (sigsum-token), started looking at state manager to wrap it up
	  + unit tests for rotation
	* [foxboron] mktree-config stuff has been merged, revieweing MRs from
	  nisse, and fix so config stuff can be used with asible (wip)
	* [gregoire] two MRs in sigsum-py, one larger to make a log client 

Decisions
	* Decision: Prefix in private key files
		* https://git.glasklar.is/sigsum/core/sigsum-go/-/issues/11
		* https://git.glasklar.is/sigsum/core/sigsum-go/-/merge_requests/40
		* use ssh format for both public and private key

Next steps
	* [filippo] continued talking with google folks to converge
	* [filippo] write down the comment about "one log with multiple keys"
	* [filippo] document with some proposed changes (like ssh signature with
	  note format, witness API encodings)
	* [filippo] open issue about framework idea in project/doc repo
	* [ln5] take bastion host for a test run
		* https://github.com/FiloSottile/mostly-harmless/tree/main/bastion
		* see also this usage example:
		  https://github.com/google/trillian-examples/blob/e53d0d16fce31748e1d50f7b9d4dbdefb55ec388/witness/golang/cmd/addrwitness/README.md
	* [nisse] log server milestone
	* [nisse, foxboron] check access to poc log, ln5 will add
	* [nisse] review gregoire's MRs
	* [foxboron] review nisse stuff, finnish up infra changes, and have some
	  opinions on how we deploy stuff so would like to discuss with ln5
	* [gregoire] make the log client speak the rest of the api (python),
	  might not have much time this week though
	* [rgdd] planning and giving feedback

Other
	* rgdd would like to chat with (at least) morten/ln5 about ansible stuff + doc needs
		* any blockers/needs that stops starting a hand-over to a log operator?
	* rgdd would like to chat with (at least) nisse about:
		* https://git.glasklar.is/sigsum/core/log-go/-/issues/6
		* https://git.glasklar.is/sigsum/project/documentation/-/merge_requests/23
		* https://git.glasklar.is/groups/sigsum/-/milestones/2#tab-issues
			* any blockers/needs that stops starting a hand-over to a log operator?
			* (with knowledge that witness changes + bastion are incoming soon-isch)
