# 2023-09-12

This document provides a sketch of the current roadmap and involved people.

## Summary of changes

The last roadmap was documented and decided here:

  - https://git.glasklar.is/sigsum/project/documentation/-/blob/main/archive/2023-05-16-roadmap.md
  - https://git.glasklar.is/sigsum/project/documentation/-/blob/main/archive/2023-05-16--meeting-minutes.md#decisions

The overall progress can be summarized as follows:

  - We have release candidates for the family of Sigsum specifications.  We are
    feeling particularly confident about the details specified in log.md now.
  - We identified important [insights][] wrt. connectivity between benign witnesses,
    and how that is related to the trust policy used by offline verifiers.  And
    related, some minor details that still [need to be patched][] in witness.md.
  - We improved the Sigsum tooling, such as fixing nits, bringing the prototype
    python witness up-to-speed, and making our monitor implementation more
    usable (e.g., by not fetching one inclusion proof per leaf in the log).

The updated roadmap aims to increase [Sigsum's readiness][].

The next roadmap update is planned to happened October 31, 2023.

[tooling milestone]: https://git.glasklar.is/groups/sigsum/-/milestones/10#tab-issues
[Sigsum's readiness]: https://git.glasklar.is/sigsum/project/documentation/-/blob/main/archive/2023-09-05-sigsum-readiness.md
[insights]: https://git.glasklar.is/sigsum/project/documentation/-/blob/main/archive/2023-09-05-summer-walks
[need to be patched]: https://git.glasklar.is/sigsum/project/documentation/-/merge_requests/46/diffs

## Roadmap

In rough order of priority:

  1. Specifications and documentation.  The goal is to cut v1 specifications and
     add missing documents that are crucial to increase Sigsum's readiness.
     1. witness.md, propose rc-2 which should ideally become the final v1 spec.
     2. bastion.md, propose rc-2 which should ideally become the final v1 spec.
     3. log.md, toggle release-candidate to become v1.
     4. Other documentation that is identified as missing
  2. Get started with operations
     1. Hash out good enough key management for Sigsum.  YubiHSMs are available.
     2. Start operating a current release of log-go, "production"
     3. Start operating a bastion host and witness that's interoperable, "test"
  3. Iterate on witnessing and monitoring
     1. witness-go, needs to become ready for test deployments
     2. bastion-go, needs to become ready for test deployments
     3. monitor-go, needs to become ready for test deployments.  Including how to
        tailor the implementation or its library hooks for an example use-case.
  4. Improve the "health" of log-go, e.g., including adding more metrics and
     fixing so that the operator can update some configurations dynamically.
  5. Improved integration/unit testing in log-go, also including support for
     multiple secondaries and better failover testing as well as documentation.
  6. Focus on website and more documentation.  Needs planning before starting.

[ongoing milestone]: https://git.glasklar.is/groups/sigsum/-/milestones/7#tab-issues

Backlog tasks and clean-up is in-scope on a need-basis.  Log operator support
and bug fixing is also in scope and planned separately when needed.

We will not be working on (4) and forward until the next roadmap is set.  Our
current estimate for all of the above the end of 2023.  Once we're done, the
plan is to enter "maintenance" mode.  This includes bug fixing, support, patch
reviewing and merging, giving talks, growing the witnessing ecosystem, etc.

Parallel to "maintenance" mode we may also decide on further development topics
that relate to Sigsum.  These are (or will eventually be) documented separately
as GitLab issues, try filtering on the "Future" label for a partial overview.
You may also look for "DRAFT: " [milestones][] as yet another partial overview.

[milestones]: https://git.glasklar.is/groups/sigsum/-/milestones/

## People

  - filippo
    - Main driver of 1.1 and 1.2 with input from nisse/rgdd.
    - Main driver of 3.1 and 3.2 with input from ln5/rgdd.
  - nisse
    - Main maintainer of code in Sigsum's core/ repositories, including cutting
      releases, writing NEWS files, etc.  Input/review from rgdd.
    - Main driver of 1.3 with input from filippo/rgdd.
    - Main driver of 3.3 with input from rgdd.
  - rgdd
    - Main responsible for planning, coordinating, chairing, etc.
    - Main driver to move 2.2 forward with input from nisse/ln5
    - Point of contact for those that want to operate logs and witnesses
  - ln5
    - Maintains Sigsum's Ansible collection, poke him for updates.
    - Consumes docs, releases, and tags to make progress on 2.2 and 2.3.
      If you want something new to be consumed by ln5, please poke him.
  - Grégoire is busy with other things at the moment; responds to questions if
    poked, nisse has the go-ahead to hack in sigsum-py with review from rgdd.
  - Everyone: pitch in with documentation related to what you're working on.

## Concrete milestones

  - Documentation that improves Sigsum's readiness (new)
    - https://git.glasklar.is/groups/sigsum/-/milestones/14#tab-issues
  - MVP implementations of witnessing and monitoring (new)
    - https://git.glasklar.is/groups/sigsum/-/milestones/13#tab-issues
  - Log server and key management (new)
    - https://git.glasklar.is/groups/sigsum/-/milestones/12#tab-issues
  - Iterate on libraries and tooling (continued)
    - https://git.glasklar.is/groups/sigsum/-/milestones/10#tab-issues
    - Wrap up the two final (minor) issues that remain

Comment: many placeholder issues in this round of milestones.

For tracking things related to operations, please use:

  - https://git.glasklar.is/glasklar/services/sigsum-logs
