Date: 2023-01-31 1215 UTC
Meet: https://meet.sigsum.org/sigsum
Chair: rgdd

Agenda
	* Hello
	* Status round
	* Decisions
	* Next steps

Hello
	* ln5
	* rgdd
	* filippo
	* foxboron
	* nisse

Status round
	* nisse: Implemented new sth.startup logic. New log-go server docs.
	  Updated golang version to 1.19. Updated draft log and verify tools.
		* log milestone done
	* [rgdd] drafty notes about project management / gitlab usage (wip)
		* https://pad.sigsum.org/p/ce88-dc28-aa66-ed09
		* (Pad is not persisted, will polish and put somewhere more
		  permanent in gitlab soon.  Feedback here is most welcome, add
		  comments at the pad's end.)
	* [rgdd] drafty roadmapping notes
		* https://git.glasklar.is/sigsum/project/documentation/-/blob/main/archive/2023-01-31-drafty-roadmapping.md
		* (Will fix "Draft: " milestones and and sync more until next
		  weekly, and then also have our first planning+retro as one
		  part of the meet)
	* [filippo] Discussed witness architecture with Ryan
	* [filippo] Wrote up reflections on log identity and key rotation
		* https://git.glasklar.is/sigsum/project/documentation/-/issues/26
	* [filippo] Proposal to switch to the checkpoint format
		* https://git.glasklar.is/sigsum/project/documentation/-/merge_requests/30
	* [ln5] doc review
	* [Foxboron] writing up docs in ansible, tinkering about the systemd stuff
	* [nisse] changes to get-leaves, worth doing, soon? If so, please
	  comment, and decide on the details next week.
		* https://git.glasklar.is/sigsum/project/documentation/-/merge_requests/29

Decisions
	* None

Next steps
	* [ln5] monitoring of poc log so we detect when it fails, server
	  restarts automatically (copied from previous week)
	* [Foxboron] ansible milestone, review nisse work
	* [filippo] more chats with the google folks if they are available, want
	  to start writing some software.  Will sync with rgdd.
	* [nisse] tooling milestone
	* [rgdd] planning of next milestones, sync with those involved
