# 2023-02-07

This document provides a sketch of the current roadmap and involved people.

## Roadmap

Send a first log-go release email to sigsum-general that includes relevant
links, getting started documentation, and planned changes (witness+bastion).

Then, in rough order of priority:

  1. Wrap-up and polish specifications.  The goal is to bump the version of the
     below documents from zero to one.
     1. log.md (separate specification)
     2. witness.md (separate specification)
     3. bastion.md (separate specification)
  2. Update witnessing
     1. sigsum-py (minimal changes to be an http server, ambition "prototype")
     2. log-go (start polling witnesses in state manager, eventually with lower
        latency but it may be helpful to start with a high-latency MVP solution).
     3. bastion-go (prototype following our specs, then make it production ready)
     4. witness-go (prototype following our specs, then make it production ready)
  3. Iterate on tooling and associated libraries
     1. Decide on example formats for sigsum proofs, log lists, and trust
        policies; and provide library support for those in sigsum-go.  Aim to
        make it easy to override these formats for applications that want to.
     2. Library that makes it easy to enforce sigsum logging with a trust policy
     3. Library that makes it easy to perform sigsum logging
     4. Command-line tools that sign, log, and verify (currently in the prototype
        stage, to become recommended for use with appropriate documentation).
     5. Monitoring, start by prototyping then iterate.  We will likely want to
        wrap this so that it is easy to add your own custom application logic.
  4. Demonstrate use-cases.  We will start with sigsum support in ST, assuming
     that such patches will be welcome (to be sync:ed with ST folks separately).
     1. Start using "v1" in leaf signatures
     2. https://git.glasklar.is/groups/system-transparency/core/-/milestones/11#tab-issues,
        aim to add with backwards-compatibility so that ST can deprecate their
        existing signature formats as they see fit on an independent timeline.
     3. Add logging to ST tooling if the sigsum signature format is used
     4. Add enforcement of logging in stboot if the sigsum signature format is
        used; around the same time we should help with a monitoring solution.
  5. Focus on website and documentation.  Needs planning before starting.  It is
     likely wise to defer updates to design.md until this activity is closer.

Remarks:

  - 1 is a bit of a slow-burner, but we would like to have this done until
    summer (or as soon as possible).  For an overview of the open discussion,
    see: https://git.glasklar.is/groups/sigsum/-/milestones/1#tab-issues
  - It is likely helpful to think about 3(ii) and 3(iii) in the context of
    making small and simple patches to ST.
  - Backlog tasks and clean-up is also in-scope, planned separately on a
    need-basis.  We already have a low-priority clean-up milestone ongoing.
  - Fixing things related to user feedback and operations is also in scope,
    planned separately on a need-basis.

After the above is done our plan is to enter "maintenance" mode, including
things like debugging, bug fixing, support on irc/matrix/sigsum-general,
patch reviewing/merging, giving talks, growing the witnessing ecosystem, etc.

In parallel to "maintenance" mode we may also decide on further development
topics that relate to Sigsum.  These are (or will eventually be) documented
separately as GitLab issues, see

  https://git.glasklar.is/sigsum/project/documentation/-/issues

and filter on the "Future" label.

## People

  - Filippo is the main driver of 1, input/discussion/decisions with everyone;
    nisse will help out with splitting and polishing of decided specifications.
  - Filippo is the main driver of 2(iii) and 2(iv), review from nisse.
  - Foxboron is the main driver of anything relating to ansible
  - ln5 is the main driver of "customer relations", also involved in "ops" stuff
  - Grégoire is busy with other things at the moment; responds to questions if
    poked, nisse has the go-ahead to hack in sigsum-py with review from Foxboron
  - nisse hacks on everything else unless otherwise specified, Foxboron does
    review and is around to provide input and discuss a need-basis
  - rgdd plans, syncs, and provides input on a need-basis

## Time estimates

The estimated time for the above priority list is "at least until September".
