# 2023-11-07

This document provides a sketch of the current roadmap and involved people.

## Summary of changes

The last roadmap was documented and decided here:

- https://git.glasklar.is/sigsum/project/documentation/-/blob/main/archive/2023-09-12-roadmap.md
- https://git.glasklar.is/sigsum/project/documentation/-/blob/main/archive/2023-09-12--meeting-minutes.md#decisions

The overall progress can be summarized as follows:

- We hashed out and documented how to get started with releases.
- We released the sigsum log server protocol v1.0.0.
- We released the log server software at v0.14.1, includes interim witnessing.
- We decided what wire-formats the next witness protocol should use, the actual
  transferring of that decision to witness.md is a work in progress.
- We hashed out key management and associated provisioning with YubiHSMs, the
  actual use of YubiHSMs as signing oracles in log-go is a work-in-progress.
- We have prototype witnesses up-and-running, including some instructions on how
  to get started as (prototype) witness operators in litetlog/README.

A few things were backlogged due to lack of time: all monitoring stuff, most
documentation, and the getting started with Sigsum log operations. All of this
is moved into the next iteration of milestones, see below. In other words, we
are (still) focusing on the parts that will increase [Sigsum's readiness].

The next roadmap update is planned to happened January 30, 2023.

## Roadmap

In rough order of priority:

1. Get started with operations
   1. Provision YubiHSMs and get them into their respective sites
   2. Start operating the most recent release of log-go, "production"
   3. Start operating a bastion host that's interoperable, "test"
2. Specifications and documentation
   1. witness.md, next release candidate or ideally cut a release
   2. bastion.md, next release candidate or ideally cut a release
   3. checkpoint.md, contribute it to the C2SP project
   4. Give documentation all over the place a brush-up, see milestone issues
3. Iterate on our implementations
   1. Bring log server and witness implementations up to latest witness.md
   2. Misc gradual log server improvements, see milestone issues
   3. Wrap-up first take of monitoring
4. Improve the "health" of log-go, e.g., including adding more metrics and
   fixing so that the operator can update some configurations dynamically.
5. Improve integration/unit testing in log-go, also including support for
   multiple secondaries and better failover testing as well as documentation.

Backlog tasks and clean-up is in-scope on a need-basis. Log operator support and
bug fixing is also in scope and planned separately when needed.

We will not be working on (4) and forward until the next roadmap is set. Our
current estimate for all of the above is _at least_ April 2024. Then we plan is
to enter "maintenance" mode. This includes bug fixing, support, patch reviewing
and merging, giving talks, growing the witnessing ecosystem, etc.

Parallel to "maintenance" mode we may also decide on further development topics
that relate to Sigsum. These are (or will eventually be) documented separately
as GitLab issues, try filtering on the "Future" label for a partial overview.
You may also look for "DRAFT: " [milestones] as yet another partial overview.

## People

- filippo
  - Maintains litetlog
  - Main responsible for 2.1, 2.2, and 2.3; input from nisse and rgdd
  - Main responsible for 3.1 (the parts relating to litetlog/witness)
  - Presents witnessing as a full talk on the CATS workshop
- grégoire
  - Working on use-cases with input from rgdd when needed
- ln5
  - Maintains Sigsum's Ansible collection, poke him for updates
  - Main responsible for 1; input and some help from rgdd
- nisse
  - Maintains code in Sigsum's core/ repositories with help from rgdd
  - Drives 2.4 and 3 together with rgdd (sync between the two of you)
  - Presents the Sigsum design as a lightning talk on the CATS workshop
- rgdd
  - Main responsible for planning, coordinating, chairing, etc
  - Point of contact for those that want to operate logs and witnesses
  - Drives 2.4 and 3 together with nisse (sync between the two of you)

## Concrete milestones

- All the things $documentation
  - https://git.glasklar.is/groups/sigsum/-/milestones/15#tab-issues
- Log server improvements
  - https://git.glasklar.is/groups/sigsum/-/milestones/16#tab-issues
- Getting started with operations
  - https://git.glasklar.is/glasklar/services/sigsum-logs/-/milestones/1#tab-issues
- Wrapping up a minimally-viable monitoring solution
  - https://git.glasklar.is/groups/sigsum/-/milestones/18#tab-issues

There's no milestone for tracking litetlog. To the extend that something is
missing there, reach out to filippo via IRC/Matrix or open GitHub issues.

Orthogonal to Sigsum's roadmap, it is worth calling out that the System
Transparency project is about to start their work on [adopting Sigsum].

[adopting sigsum]: https://git.glasklar.is/groups/system-transparency/core/-/milestones/11#tab-issues
[milestones]: https://git.glasklar.is/groups/sigsum/-/milestones/
[sigsum's readiness]: https://git.glasklar.is/sigsum/project/documentation/-/blob/main/archive/2023-09-05-sigsum-readiness.md
