# Sigsum weekly

  - Date: 2023-02-28 1215 UTC
  - Meet: https://meet.sigsum.org/sigsum
  - Chair: ln5

## Agenda

  - Hello
  - Status round
  - Decisions
  - Next steps
  - Other (after the meet if time permits)

## Hello

  - ln5
  - Foxboron
  - Filippo

## Status round

  - nisse: Not attending or working this week. Last week: A couple of cleanups merged or in review. In progress things: Implementing sigsum-proof, https://git.glasklar.is/sigsum/core/sigsum-go/-/merge_requests/70, first iteration of policy: https://git.glasklar.is/sigsum/core/sigsum-go/-/merge_requests/71, basic witness: https://git.glasklar.is/sigsum/core/sigsum-go/-/merge_requests/72
  - Foxboron: Ansible documentation has been written.
  - ln5: Two YubiHSM 2 FIPS are in the mail.

## Decisions

  - None.

## Next steps

  - ln5: upgrade our stable log (ghost-shrimp) up to a recent version
  - ln5: write instructions and/or code for setting up availability monitoring, using checker
  - ln5: look into setting up gitlab pages, for documentation
  - Foxboron: Finishing the documentation.
  - filippo: checkpoint proposal, prototype witnessing (or expand on nisse's)

## Other

  - nisse: Is it right that secondary doesn't need the primary's pubkey? See https://git.glasklar.is/sigsum/core/log-go/-/merge_requests/106, it seems to work fine to just delete it.
  - Deferred from previous meeting: Are we 2 weeks from a release yet? No, let's wait another week.

