# Sigsum weekly

- Date: 2023-11-28 1215 UTC
- Meet: https://meet.sigsum.org/sigsum
- Chair: rgdd

## Agenda

- Hello
- Status round
- Decisions
- Next steps
- Other (after the meet if time permits)

## Hello

- rgdd
- nisse
- ln5
- filippo

## Status round

- rgdd: we have an updated https://www.sigsum.org/
  - /docs is now an entry point to find further links, also added a quick
    getting-started demo that show-cases our current tools and what's up and
    running
  - also a bit of minor clean-up
  - opened a bunch of issues to expand /docs with more things i couldn't
    complete before cats, some i've already started on (assigned) while others
    are up-for-grabs
  - (no local things on my computer though, everything are in rgdd/ branches.)
- rgdd: assist with some input, writing, and other prep for CATS things w/ nisse
- rgdd: updating history, would like input from gregoire and filippo (you've
  been tagged in the MR)
  - https://git.glasklar.is/sigsum/project/documentation/-/merge_requests/58
- nisse:
  - writing design paper (with rgdd):
    https://git.glasklar.is/nisse/cats-2023/-/blob/main/sigsum-design.tex?ref_type=heads
    - cats talk outline:
      https://git.glasklar.is/nisse/cats-2023/-/blob/main/talk-outline.txt?ref_type=heads
- ln5: gitlab email and 3rd party sign-up and sign-in setup; configured
  ghost-shrimp to accept witnessing
- filippo: cats preparations, some more work on what's now called sunlight (the
  ct log things). Talking to fredrik, strategizing about where to put specs
  (wip). Updated checkpoint and note specs based on feedback from rgdd (issue nr
  49). And pushes proposals for some changes to the witness API proposal.

## Decisions

- Decision: s/add-tree-head/add-checkpoint
  - Merge the MRs, let's get the other things decided post-cats
  - Put the two other proposals in separate MRs for next week

## Next steps

- We're going to CATS

## Other

- None
