Date: 2023-01-24 1215 UTC
Meet: https://meet.sigsum.org/sigsum
Chair: rgdd

Agenda
	* Hello
	* Status round
	* Decisions
	* Next steps

Hello
	* rgdd
	* nisse
	* foxboron
	* ln5
	* gregoire

Status round
	* [nisse] Openssh-format key files and ssh-agent support merged.
	* [nisse] Primary/secondary docs in review
		* https://git.glasklar.is/sigsum/core/log-go/-/merge_requests/71
	* [rgdd] drafty backlog items for morten to look at, see:
		* https://git.glasklar.is/groups/sigsum/-/milestones/6#tab-issues
	* [rgdd] roadmapping, will call for a planning meeting soon
	* [ln5] figuring out why poc log was dead (follows main)
	* [Foxboron] testing config setup, and thinking about the infra role changes
	* [Foxboron] review and discuss with nisse
	* [gregoire] sigsum-py, fixing client to follow latest api specs

Decisions
	* Decision? Go with magic sth file to specify startup behavior
		* https://git.glasklar.is/sigsum/core/log-go/-/issues/43
		* Morten and nisse will agree on the details after the meet,
		  looks mostly right but would like to separate sth file from
		  the "instruction" (separate files)
	* Decision: Upgrade to golang 1.19
		* Document in go.mod file that we're following Debian backports version

Next steps
	* [ln5] monitoring of poc log so we detect when it fails, server restarts automatically
	* [Foxboron] ansible milestone, misc TODOs
	* [nisse] start-up issue, complete docs after review, then tooling
	* [gregoire] follow latest api specs in client (continued)
	* [rgdd] review docs, planning

Other
	* Added domain normalization to sigsum-go/pkg/submit-token, should this
	  be moved to log-go/internal instead?  Keep for now and see if its
	  useful for any other tooling, otherwise move to log-go internal in a
	  couple of weeks.

