# Sigsum weekly

  - Date: 2024-09-03 1215 UTC
  - Meet: async, full out the pad and bring discussions for next week
  - Chair: rgdd

## Agenda

  - Hello
  - Status round
  - Decisions
  - Next steps
  - Other (after the meet if time permits)

## Hello

  - rgdd

## Status round

  - rgdd: an fyi that filippo created c2sp tags as requested last week
    - https://github.com/C2SP/C2SP/issues/97
  - rgdd: suggested roadmap based on in-person discussions last week, see below
  - rgdd: provided tracy with talk metadata for the transparency-dev summit
    - https://pad.sigsum.org/p/84a0-bf5d-6944-444b-06d9-17b8-1147-1d39
  - rgdd: stuck in travelling (cancelled flight), won't be able to make the
    meet. Decided to do it async because nisse is on conference too, Filippo not
    here this week, and ln5 busy with other things. If anything needs discussion
    with higher bandwidth reach out to me and we will schedule a separate call.
  - nisse: Started implementing the checkpoint-based witness protocol.

## Decisions

  - Decision? Adopt roadmap until the transparency-dev summit
    - https://git.glasklar.is/sigsum/project/documentation/-/merge_requests/84
    - Update the roadmap in the end of October
    - Defer until next week when we have a full fleshed meeting

## Next steps

  - rgdd: attend osfc

## Other

  - None
