# Sigsum weekly

- Date: 2024-02-13 1215 UTC
- Meet: https://meet.sigsum.org/sigsum
- Chair: rgdd

## Agenda

- Hello
- Status round
- Decisions
- Next steps
- Other (after the meet if time permits)

## Hello

- rgdd
- ln5
- gregoire
- nisse

## Status round

- nisse: filed bug on yubihsm repo
- nisse,ln5: cra -- exploring the option of possibly being part of an
  application

## Decisions

- None

## Next steps

- rgdd: possibly virtual walk with filippo and a bit of feedback to gregoire
- ln5: wrap up the thing i started wrt. yubihsm-agent and deploy on poc.so

## Other

- gregoire: trying to get a sigsum poc together -- implementing building blocks
  in rust. Wondering where that can be shared?
  - perhaps under /gregoire at git.glasklar.is
  - please poke if you want us to look at anything!
