# Sigsum weekly

- Date: 2024-04-02 1215 UTC
- Meet: https://meet.sigsum.org/sigsum
- Chair: rgdd

## Agenda

- Hello
- Status round
- Decisions
- Next steps
- Other (after the meet if time permits)

## Hello

- rgdd
- filippo

## Status round

- filippo: rwc happened, plenty of conversation. Presentation went well,
  presented the abstractions that we tried to think about.
- filippo: trustfabric team is open to sync feeder for AW (via bastion), so
  that's great!
- rgdd, ln5: syncing with Al to give power to an AW

## Decisions

- Decision: Cancel next weekly on 2024-04-09
  - (Most of is will not be available due to an in-person event.)
  - rgdd will update the calendar

## Next steps

- filippo: get witnes/bastion specs merged, move on to implementations. Don't
  plan to make that much progress this week though.

## Other

- filippo: bulletin board, maybe that is the helpful way of talking to users
  about tlogs?
  - rgdd: that's how i went about it on the osfc
    - https://www.osfc.io/2022/talks/using-sigsum-logs-to-detect-malicious-and-unintended-key-usage/
- filippo: thinking about renaming litetlog, not a very helpful name. Maybe just
  tlog.
- https://gitlab.torproject.org/rgdd/silent-ct
